---
layout: test
title: Accessibility of window.opener navigation events
---

<mark><strong>Note: this is not ready for public release yet.</strong></mark>

## Background

It's possible to create links that open in new tabs/windows by default. Pages opened this way have access, via their [`window.opener`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/opener) object, to the `window` of the page that opened them. This could be used, for example, to allow a help pop-up in a web-app to direct the user to a different part of the app.

## Problems

1. If you can see the screen, you would notice the parent page change when this sort of navigation occurs. But what if you can't?

   Screen readers either don't get informed when navigation occurs in a non-current tab/page, or they don't tell their users. Generally that's fine, as most of the time such announcements would be too verbose, plus there would be privacy concerns from the browser's perspective. However, in this case, that information _is_ important.

2. Interestingly, whilst testing, I found that `window.opener` isn't made available when the user actively chooses to open `rel="opener"` links in new tabs or windows, which was surprising.

## Test procedure

1. Visit the [start page for the test](start.html).

2. Open the link in the start page to bring up the pop-up.

   - Try opening the link normally. Current browsers open links with `target="_blank"` in a new tab instead of a new window.

   - Try actively choosing to open the link in a new tab or window.

3. Activate the button in the pop-up, to navigate away from the start page in its window.

4. With a screen-reader running, note whether the navigation is announced.

## Test results

### When following the pop-up link normally

Is there an announcement when the button is used to navigate the opening page?

| Browser     | NVDA 2019.3.1   | JAWS 2019       |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| IE 11       | No announcement | No announcement |
| Firefox 74  | No announcement | No announcement |
| Chrome 80   | No announcement | No announcement |
| Safari 13.1 | No announcement | No announcement |

Tests were run on Windows 10 build 1909 and macOS Mojave 10.14.6.

### When explicitly opening the pop-up link in a new tab/window

The pop-up page could not control the location of its opener---is this intended browser behaviour?

## Suggestions

From personal experience, it seems this technique is rarely used, but it does create accessibility barriers for some people. There are two ways we could address this...

1. The simplest solution would be to make the labelling of the control in the pop-up clear, so users know that it will navigate the opening page. In order to encourage web authors to do this, we could ammend the [opener example in the spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/links.html#link-type-opener) and add a note about this.

2. It may be helpful for screen readers to notify their users when navigation occurs in the current window's opener. We could investigate whether this specific use case can be accommodated in, or added to, the relevant APIs.

Further, we should investigate the reason why `window.opener` is not made available to pages that the user has explicitly opened in a new tab/window, even with the "opener" keyword present. Is this intended behaviour?

## Reference

<mark>This will probably be removed, but is useful until I file the issue.</mark>

[Initial comment in HTML repo](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/4330#issuecomment-548994450)

## Acknowledgements

<mark>&hellip;</mark>
